# Asthma-Management-Device_Dyspnea-Aid
Asthma is a chronic, or long-term, condition that intermittently inflames and narrows the airways in the lungs. People who have asthma may experience symptoms that range from mild to severe and that may happen rarely or every day. Doctor may recommend avoiding certain risk factors to help prevent asthma from getting worse or causing asthma attacks. It can be done by avoiding air pollutants extreme cold and extreme heat. The concept of the system is to monitor the condition of a patient suffering for asthma and predict possible asthma attack for individuals and alert them. It is done by measuring the environmental condition around them. The system is developed using temperature sensor and pollution sensors combined with an Android application. Using supervised learning technique and analyzing (frequently taken) air pollutant data, the system will help to reduce asthma attacks for asthma patients. Also analyzing personalized data of individuals it will be possible to recommend the patient about the current zone is safe or unsafe for them. Additionally, it will be possible to know the dosage of medicine to taken by determining the exhale rate using the peak flow meter attached with the system. This system includes the development of a multi-functional device that can solve the problem of daily patient's monitoring. A graphical interface in the application will be added to make it more user friendly for patients of all ages without the need of any external help. And the proposed system is non-invasive, harmless, cost effective and can be used for patients of all age groups.
